Previously on Fringe...
I've been seeing him in my dreams
for the past three weeks.
A shared vision like this,
he must be real.
A father and son just pulled a man
from the middle of Reiden lake.
He knows things nobody outside
of this division could possibly know.
Olivia, than God you're here.
Who are you?
He's saying that his
name is Peter Bishop.
Hello, Walter.
I don't know who you are
or why you claim to be my son.
My son drowned.
I know this must be
confusing for you.
I need you to help me
figure out
why no one remembers me.
Why you don't remember me.
Wherever you came from,
however you got here,
it doesn't matter.
I can't help you.
[Laughter and chatter]
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
I thought
I'd gotten rid of you.
I don't think so.
It took me three years
to finally get you.
You're not getting rid of me
that easily.
Where'd you disappear to?
I was checking up on Walter.
He found the swing set,
and you know how he feels
about Newtonian mechanics.
You know what this is?
The perfect day.
Yes.
It's too bad it has to end.
And why would it have to end?
We can't ignore
the problem, Peter.
Ignoring it
won't make it go away.
I don't understand.
What's the problem?
What's wrong, Olivia?
You, Peter.
You're the problem.
[Sighs]
[Door beeps, then clicks]
[Door opens]
I'm sorry if I woke you up.
That's all right.
I was already awake.
There's something going on.
And we think it has
something to do with you.
With your appearance here.
Okay.
What kind of something?
We're not sure.
But we think
it has to do with time.
Mommy.
Mommy, look what I caught.
Ew, get it away from me.
Got you.
It's fake, mommy.
- See.
- Thank goodness.
'Cause you never know
when a spider's
gonna get you.
Okay, I'm almost done here,
and then we'll read
together, okay?
What are you in the mood for?
(Samantha) Burlap bear.
(Anne) Burlap bear.
That's my favorite.
[Hyperventilating]
Samantha?
Sam?
Sam, where are you?
[Baby screams]
Oh, my God.
[Baby crying]
[Gasping]
Mommy.
Mommy, what is it?
Oh, my.
Sam.
[Hyperventilating]
Sync and corrections by n17t01
www.addic7ed.com
So what are you thinking?
First chance I've had
to look outside
since I got back.
Looks exactly
like I remembered.
Uh, I meant,
what do you think
about what I told you
in regard
to the time anomalies?
Oh.
Uh...
People in Boston reporting
strange events of deja vu.
Well, it's not just deja vu.
Some of them
are reporting time loops.
I don't really know
what that means.
I mean, what is a time loop?
Like Groundhog Day?
Look, I'm not trying
to be difficult,
but what does this have
to do with me anyway?
Shortly before you arrived,
we experienced
our own anomalies
having to do with time--
Strange reversals
in cause and effect.
Is that why you're taking me
to Massive Dynamic?
To run more tests?
You think these time anomalies
may be because of me?
Yeah.
So what's Walter's theory?
Walter doesn't have a theory.
He's made it pretty clear
that he doesn't really want
to have anything
to do with you.
[Cell phone rings]
- Dunham.
(Lincoln) - Hey, it's Lincoln.
There's been another incident.
[Cb chatter]
Walter, I'm not sure
if I'm doing this right.
(Walter)
Hang on. Here it is.
"A short emission
should indicate
"universe breach and extend
to the infected area."
Did you spray?
Yeah.
Twice.
No reaction.
Maybe third time's the charm.
[Sighs]
Negative.
There's no change in color
or anything.
It would seem that this event
is not caused
by a bleed-through
from the other universe.
Well, it's a wonderful device
nonetheless,
despite the poorly-written
instruction manual.
[Cb chatter]
Okay, you just stay here,
don't touch anything,
and don't talk to anyone.
It looks like
there was a fire here
but with no apparent cause.
The damage just happened
in an instant.
A flash fire?
Except there were no flames.
And that's not
the weirdest part.
According to the mother,
for the duration
of the event, her daughter went
from being a five-year-old
to an infant.
Mommy, where's Emily?
Samantha, it's okay.
We can buy a new one.
(Samantha)
I don't want a new one.
I want Emily.
(Ann) Well, are you sure you
didn't put her somewhere else?
(Margaret) She was here.
I remember.
We were having a circus.
And you can't have a circus
without an elephant.
Is that Emily?
Emily!
A little smoky,
but otherwise okay.
Thank you.
Emily.
Let's see.
So you really think
I caused all this?
I don't know.
[Cb chatter]
Fire marshal says
they've never seen
anything like it.
Some areas burnt next to places
that are completely undamaged.
The outside wall
had scorch marks
that made a perfect circle.
It's almost like the fire
burned in the shape of a ball.
Fire marshal said that
there was another fire
here four years ago.
Well, that fits
with what the woman was saying
about her daughter
becoming an infant.
So we're thinking what,
that this whole place
flashed back to four years ago?
We need to get him
back to the lab.
I want Dr. Bishop
to run those tests immediately.
Walter is refusing to do
anything that involves him.
Dr. Bishop
doesn't get to choose
which cases he works
and which he doesn't.
It's his job to investigate
fringe events,
and, until something
suggests otherwise,
he is a fringe event.
[Clicking]
[Beep]
The subject can lower the arms.
You can call me Peter.
Subject does not have
an elevated radiation level.
[Beeping]
Nor does it have
any trace chemical signatures.
[Peter softly grunts]
Subject appears to be solid,
not phasing in and out
of existence.
You can inform Agent Broyles
that I've completed
the examination,
and I conclude
that this subject
is not the cause
of the time-related phenomena.
Walter, you couldn't possibly
know that so quickly.
If I was erased
from this timeline
and then thrown back into it,
then it stands to reason
those two things
could be related.
I'll be in my bedroom
working on the problem.
I do not wish to be disturbed.
He lives here?
Since when?
Since I checked him
out of a mental institution
three years ago.
Now this lab is the only place
that he feels safe.
Okay.
If he won't help me,
I'll just do it myself.
Does he still keep
all his notes on worm holes
in the bathroom?
You think this has something
to do with time travel?
No.
Not exactly.
I think this has something
to do with time displacement.
And I think that,
when I came back here,
I somehow damaged
the space-time continuum.
And, if that's the case,
there may not actually be
any rules to it.
Like the apartment.
The fire and the baby.
The mother didn't revert
to a younger age,
- but her daughter did.
- Yeah.
Precisely.
I can't explain it yet,
but, as far as I can tell,
these anomalies are just gonna
keep on increasing
exponentially.
I mean, if we can
judge anything by the damage
done by that fire
in the apartment,
these things are just
gonna keep on getting worse.
(Girl)
We're already over an hour late.
Why does this always happen?
Relax, creeper.
We're totally gonna make it
in time for the bands
that don't suck anyway.
Whatever.
You just think Aluminum Rain
rules the known universe.
Yeah, some day
they're gonna make it big
and you two are gonna say
you liked 'em all along.
[Laughs] Dylan,
this is my solemn promise.
I will never say
that I liked Aluminum Rain.
Look out!
Oh, my God.
[Sighs]
This is not working.
I got
too many competing theories.
I can't balance the equation.
There's too many variables
and not enough constants.
Look at this.
There have been 65 time slips
in the past 72 hours,
all of which occurred
within a 40-mile radius
of downtown Boston.
So because most people
don't call in deja vu
to the FBI, we can assume
that there is at least twice
as many unreported.
Now I've categorized
all of the events--
Lost time, frozen moments,
time jumps, reversals.
What about the apartment fire?
How'd you categorize that one?
The spherical nature of it makes
it distinct from the others.
Maybe we should just go back
to the site
and get some more--
[Door opens]
Agent Dunham,
I was going to make
a Bologna sandwich.
Would you care for one?
No, but thank you, Walter.
I'm working on the case
with Peter.
We could really use you
on this one.
I'd be happy to join you.
As soon as my lab
is available to me again.
Ah! My copy
of Carroll's Cosmology.
I was just looking for that.
- Walter.
- It's okay.
Just let him go.
He can't even look at me.
(Olivia) Can you blame him?
Seeing the adult version
of the son
that he lost.
I mean, the visions
he was having
were unsettling enough.
What visions?
For weeks before you arrived,
you were appearing to him
here in the lab.
You weren't aware
you were doing that?
No.
You were also showing up
in my dreams.
Almost every night.
How is that possible
when I'd never even
seen you before?
Olivia...
Look, you can believe
whatever you like,
but this is where
I'm supposed to be.
This is my home.
So I don't know.
Maybe you
and Walter were seeing
echoes of the other timeline.
(Lincoln) Just got word.
A freight train
appeared out of nowhere,
almost took out a car
full of teenagers.
Are they okay?
They're all fine.
The car stopped just in time.
Let's take my car.
I'll come with you guys.
If I'm causing some sort
of cosmic disruption,
then there's gonna be heightened
levels of alpha radiation,
but I'm gonna need
more specific readings.
The full spectrum
of e.M. Waves,
not just the...
[Radio chatter,
indistinct conversations]
(Olivia) And did
you have any warning
that the train might be coming?
No, it--
it just came out of nowhere.
No bells or--
or anything.
(Olivia) So when you say
that the train disappeared,
what do you mean exactly?
I know it sounds crazy,
but I could only see
part of it,
like it was passing
through a window.
Curved. Like looking
through a bubble.
Spherical.
I swear,
I wasn't smoking anything.
Something wrong?
How did we get here?
Um, we drove.
You all right?
No.
I am not all right.
I think I just had a time jump.
You're sure about that?
Okay, thanks.
The transit authority
said that railroad line
was decommissioned.
The last train
to run on that track
was four years ago.
Sound familiar?
The fire
in the apartment building
was four years ago.
Well, that's finally
a piece of good news.
We might actually
have the makings of a...
Pattern.
Boston PD held a witness
for us.
Let's hope
he's got something useful.
I'll check with the CSIs.
This is gonna start
getting annoying.
Agent Olivia Dunham.
I'm with the FBI.
I was wondering if I could
ask you a couple questions.
What do you want to know?
So you were
with another two people?
[Clicking] Who were they?
(Dylan) Yeah, um, a
girl in the front
and a girl in the back.
So when you say
that the train disappeared,
what did you mean exactly?
Kind of like
it was in brackets.
In brackets?
Not like a bubble?
Because--
And then it was, uh,
like looking through--
So it was kind of--
It was blurry.
Oh.
Did you...
Hey, guys.
I got something.
What?
Peter?
There are heightened levels
of neutron radiation
at the train crossing.
Why didn't you tell us that
when we were at the scene?
Because I didn't know
until I was just back there
- a second ago.
- What?
It's not important.
What is important
is that a piece of the bumper
just crumbled
into my hands.
Metal degradation--
It's a classic sign
of neutron radiation.
We got get those kids tested
for radiation poisoning.
I'm sorry, you lost me.
It doesn't happen in nature.
Cosmic radiation waves.
They're random, erratic.
Neutron radiation has to be
generated by human technology.
So what, you're saying you don't
think you're responsible
for what's going on?
No. I'm not saying that.
I don't know that.
But what I am saying is that
somebody has to be causing
these time events.
[Classical music]
♪ ♪
[Giggling]
Raymond, did you remember
to change the date
on your dentist appointment?
Yep. I remembered.
And you took your cholesterol
pill this morning?
Like always, Kate.
You know you don't need
to remind me of things anymore.
I've turned over a new leaf.
Is that right?
After 30 years?
What would I do without you?
[Pencil breaks]
- Here you go.
- Oh.
Thank you, honey.
- Success?
- No.
Not yet but close.
I'm sure you'll get it, honey.
Any day now.
Mm-hmm.
Kate.
Would you like some tea?
Who are you?
I'm Raymond, sweetheart.
I'm Raymond.
[Classic rock]
♪ ♪
Why would anyone develop
technology
that would cause
time collisions?
I don't know.
Why would Oppenheimer
invent the bomb?
You think this is a weapon?
No, no. I don't know that.
I just--
I mean, I hope not.
But regardless the neutron pulse
has to come from somewhere
in the vicinity of these
two time bubble events.
The fire and the train crossing.
If we can find
some kind of pattern,
maybe we could locate
the source.
But two points isn't really
very much to go on.
How about four?
I just got two new reports.
Perfect circle of trees suddenly
appeared in a parking garage
in Chestnut Hill.
Shortly after,
an open pit filled with
rotting garbage suddenly
appeared on the eighth hole
of the Franklin park
golf course.
The course was built on top
of the landfill...
Let me guess.
Four years ago.
Yeah, but look at it.
It's still completely random
to my eyes.
There's no way to--
I am ready to present a theory.
Snails!
Nautilus shells.
Ram's horns.
These all have one thing
in common.
Fibonacci's golden spiral.
I'll be damned, Walter.
That's it.
I believe the source of these
time-slips
must be located in the center
of the spiral.
You'll want to search
a three square mile area
in the vicinity of Brookline.
We need to go
Christmas shopping.
I know, sweetheart.
There's plenty of time.
It's not even Thanksgiving yet.
I'll miss it and
then it'll be too late.
I have to go.
- All the stores'll be closed--
- Hey, hey, hey.
We're not gonna miss Christmas.
You hear me?
I'm not gonna let
that happen, okay?
I'm not gonna let that happen.
Don't worry.
We'll have all the christmases
in the world.
I have some work
I need to do now.
But I will see you soon.
[Television noise]
[Typing]
[Electric hum]
[Crackling]
Raymond, did you remember
to change the date
for your dentist appointment?
- Yeah, I remembered.
- Oh, good.
And you took your--
My cholesterol pills
in the morning.
Yeah, you don't need
to remind me
- every little thing.
- Oh, really?
But I do enjoy it.
[Chuckles]
(Man) This is your house
here, right, ma'am?
The gray one?
(Olivia) If you do notice
anything out of the ordinary,
please contact the FBI.
Thank you for your time.
(Man) I'll check that house
across the way, then.
(Man #2) Yeah, that's
probably a good idea.
If the source is around here,
then it must be well hidden.
Maybe it's underground.
Or hiding in plain sight.
Something on your mind?
Yeah. Yeah.
Those dreams that
you were having--
- The ones that I'm in--
- Mm-hmm.
Were we in a park?
Walter on a swing set?
What?
In the dreams, did you
feel like you knew me?
Did you feel anything?
You're a stranger, so...
What would I feel?
(Man) Maintenance
guy and the gardener.
(Woman) Yeah, all right.
I'll just go ahead
and talk to my neighbors.
It's the red one, the one
on differential equations.
Yeah.
Got it!
[Sirens]
Raymond!
- Raymond!
- Kate!
I need to show you something.
What is it?
What's wrong?
- I need to show you something.
- What are you talking about?
Just please!
Come with me.
Raymond, you're scaring me.
There's something
you need to know.
Something amazing.
I don't understand.
What is this?
I built it.
From your work I used
your theories,
your concepts, your brilliance.
Raymond, are you saying--
Time chambers
are possible. Yes.
I built it for you.
Took me almost three years.
It isn't perfect yet.
It only works
for limited periods.
I got it up to 47 minutes now.
But it can't go longer
until I program it
with the completed equation,
Kate.
Kate, listen to me.
You need to complete it
so we can keep the chamber
open indefinitely.
Raymond, what year is it?
2007.
No, what year is it out there?
2011.
[Police radio chatter]
(Man) It's the next one over.
[Electronically
distorted speech]
Aah! Aah!
Okay, Walter, I'm as close
as I'm gonna get.
Now you spray the fingerprint
powder towards the suspect area.
Walter, it's huge.
There's no end to it.
(Walter) Probably shrouds
the entire property.
This is a time bubble,
and if we are right--
And what's happening is
originating from there--
It would be powerful, which is
why the agent was obliterated.
You can't just walk from
the present into the past.
You're shattering the laws
of physics.
- Well, how do we get in?
- There's only one way in.
We need a Faraday cage.
It's gotta be mobile,
something that can block out
the electromagnetic field
so that I can cross through
and turn off
whatever's causing this.
Walter, you need to build
a moveable--
I heard the idea!
I know what a Faraday cage is!
A baboon would.
Astrid!
I need a computer battery.
And a spool of copper wire.
And a climbing harness.
And some rubber cement.
I think it's in my Spiderman
fanny pack.
Walter's working on a way
to get inside.
Did he happen to mention when
or where we can expect
another residual event like
the train or the apartment fire?
I didn't ask.
What about Walter's spiral?
It led us here to the origin.
Could we use it to track where
the next event will occur?
Yeah, that's a good idea.
- I need a map.
- Come with me.
Raymond, you need to stop this.
Turn it off!
No! You don't understand.
You don't know what can happen.
Look, we don't have much time.
You need to finish the equation.
Tell me why this is happening.
I don't understand why
this is happening!
Trust me, Kate.
Some things are supposed
to remain theories.
It wasn't meant to be built.
Listen to me.
You don't understand
what you've done!
You don't understand!
- Tell me why you did this!
- We don't have time!
Raymond, why did you do this?
Did something happen to me?
Raymond?
I lost you, Kate.
I lost you.
We've identified the owners
of the house.
Raymond and Kate Green.
Raymond is
an electrical engineer,
Kate, professor emeritus
of theoretical physics
at Boston university.
Theoretical physics?
Well, that makes sense.
She retired three years ago.
Early onset Alzheimer's.
We have a problem.
If we extend the golden spiral
out to the next iteration,
we find the next event's gonna
take place right there.
The Melville tunnel.
Which didn't exist
four years ago.
That tunnel goes
under the river.
There's hundreds of people
in it at any one point.
If that tunnel ceases to exist,
they'll all drown.
Agent Lee, get down there.
Coordinate with Boston PD
and start evacuating.
Here.
Walter calls this the
Walter Bishop Faraday harness.
He wanted me to tell you that.
(Peter and Olivia)
Okay, so how do I put it on?
I'm the one who go in.
And what are you gonna do
when you get inside?
I'm gonna shut it off.
How?
Walter will talk me through.
We don't even know if the comms
are gonna work in there.
We need someone with
a science background.
He's right.
No, no, you--
The primary transistor goes
on the back of the neck
with the prongs either side
of the wearer's spine.
This goes into your neck.
Course it does.
[Astrid grunts]
[Peter grunts]
I'm sure this will
get him across
but I'm not guaranteeing
what will happen on the inside.
Environment in the bubble
may override the device.
Walter, what happens
if it breaks down on the inside?
Exactly the same as happened
to the unfortunate fellow
who turned into confetti.
[Quiet chatter]
[Sighs]
(Astrid) Walter, he's in.
The cage was a good idea.
He's very smart.
We have to hurry.
It's over, Raymond.
They're outside.
No, they can't come in.
It's impossible.
All you have to do
is solve the problem.
I already solved it.
Upstairs it's, um...
It's why I called out to you.
I haven't written it down yet,
but I have it.
[Creaking, footsteps]
[Door opening]
Yah!
Raymond, what have you done?
Peter?
Peter, can you hear me?
[Phone ringing] Agent Lee.
We've still got over 50 cars
stuck down here.
We're clearing out
the civilians.
You have to see this.
[Indistinct chatter]
(Raymond) I thought this was impossible.
But I wouldn't give up.
It wouldn't work
and then something changed.
(Kate) What changed?
At first, I couldn't get it
to work.
And then three days ago,
I got results.
And five minutes turned
into ten, and ten into twenty,
and then...I got it up to
47 minutes.
I know it can go longer.
It's over, Raymond.
They're not going away.
We're not turning it off!
[Clank]
Don't make me hurt you.
No, no, no, don't!
You can't.
The entire city block
will be evaporated
along with all of us.
He's right!
If it's not shut down properly,
it will cause a rip
in the fabric of space-time.
Then shut it down properly.
An agent is already dead
because of this machine,
and right now,
there's a tunnel out there
that's gonna cease to exist
causing who knows
how many more deaths.
What are you talking about?
Time displacement.
There are repercussions.
Repercussions I was afraid of.
- I'll shut it down.
- No. Kate!
On one condition.
I want immunity for my husband.
He didn't know.
There's no way he could have.
[Distorted speech]
- Can you hear me?
- Yeah, go ahead.
They've agreed to turn it off,
but they've got some conditions.
I can't go on without you.
I don't want this for us.
Kate, when you got sick,
it happened so fast.
And all the things
that you were for me
and all the things
that you did for me...
I didn't have a chance
to be that for you.
I thought we'd have more time.
This isn't living, Raymond.
Living is what's beyond
this room, beyond this house,
out there in the world
where you're supposed to be.
Then if not this, how?
How do I repay you?
I mean, what--
What better thing can I do
for you than this?
You say that you shouldn't
change fate, but you don't know.
You don't know what's waiting
for you, how terrible it is.
Sweetheart,
I'll never give up, Kate.
Never.
I'll build it again.
I can do it again.
We have your completed
equation--You did it.
Look, all you have to do
is write it in that book.
I'm not gonna give up.
I'm not gonna give up, Kate.
We would have to move to--
to another place.
Yes.
Far away, yes.
And I'm sure you'll find a way
so that people won't get hurt.
Let 'em have
their investigation.
Let 'em take away
all the equipment,
ask their questions.
I'll build it again.
[Indistinct chatter]
Everybody, run!
Everybody, run now!
Get outta here!
All right, they're drawing up
the paperwork,
but I have assurances,
you will not be prosecuted.
Hey, I hate to break this up,
but I held up my end
of the deal
and we're running out of time.
I love you, Raymond.
Yeah.
[Humming, crackling]
[People shouting]
Don't worry about
all these people here, Kate.
It's okay.
It'll be just us again.
I have to go answer
some questions now.
- Okay.
- A few hours and I'll be back.
A nurse will be here with you
in case you need anything.
All right?
I'll be back soon.
No.
No. No.
I know, I know.
Stay here.
I just need a few minutes.
If you get hungry you can
get a snack from the kitchen,
- which is just there.
- Yeah.
(Man) Fire marshal says
they've never seen
anything like it.
[Distant phone rings]
Good work today.
Turns out it wasn't you causing
these events after all.
Actually, I think it was.
I think the only reason
Kate's theory worked
is because of my presence here.
Why do you think that?
Because I overheard Raymond
telling Kate
that he only started getting
results three days ago.
I arrived three days ago.
Initially I thought it was the
timeline that had to be reset,
but...Now I'm thinking
that it's me.
Clearly,
I'm in the wrong place.
And all the people that I know
and love are somewhere else.
Now I just gotta figure out
how to get home.
In the meantime, I can
make it more comfortable
while you're here.
In your debriefing,
you said you were living in
faculty housing with Dr. Bishop.
I checked.
Dr. Bishop
does own a home on campus.
It's deja vu.
Just so you know,
there'll be an FBI agent
stationed out the front door.
[Chuckles]
Where would I run to?
So hey, do I get an allowance?
I'll see what I can do.
Okay.
Thanks for the lift.
I'm gonna talk to Walter again
and see if I can convince him
to help you.
Best of luck with that.
I was important to you,
wasn't I?
I mean, the other version
of me.
'Cause I see the way
you look at me
when you think
that I'm not aware.
Yeah.
Yeah, she was.
She is.
Well, I hope that you get
back to her.
Thank you.
Me too.
Sync and corrections by n17t01
www.addic7ed.com
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org